CSC461 - Project Proposal: Cloud Gaming
Problem Definition
	Modern gaming has seen massive improvements in the last decade, delivering incredible graphics,
immersive worlds, and unique experiences to users. However, as the scope of games grows 
exponentially larger, the hardware needed to engage with these games has become a roadblock for 
consumers. A casual enthusiast of video games may be turned away by the large costs associated with
upgrading hardware to enjoy the latest instalments from their favourite franchises. Cloud gaming is
a development meant to appeal to users who want to experience the latest games without paying a 
fortune for their own setups capable of running them to their full potential. Cloud gaming offers 
to store and run games on remote servers, receive inputs from a user’s device, and send the data 
stream back in the form of a video. This allows the user to avoid paying for expensive computer 
hardware by paying a small subscription fee to use the service. As games continue to become more
complex and demand more from hardware, gaming as a service is seen as a way to alleviate some of 
the cost associated with these upgrades for the average consumer.		

Approach
	Cloud gaming technology was originally developed around 2003 but has only seen wider adoption in
the last five years. As hardware requirements continue to rise, companies have seen a larger market
emerge for consumers looking for games as a service. This has resulted in a number of both 
successful and unsuccessful projects attempting to capitalize on this emerging market. To compare 
and contrast the different projects, one must look into the accessibility of the services. 
Analyzing both the data rates offered and the required internet speeds to gauge if the service 
matches the expectations of the user. Addressing factors such as input lag, FPS stuttering, 
disconnections, etc. The goal of this project will be to analyze successful services such as Xbox
Game Pass Ultimate and PlayStation Plus Premium against services that failed, like Google Stadia,
based on the above criteria. Additionally, by providing insight into future advancements and 
innovations that could allow cloud-based gaming to become the primary way consumers engage with 
video games.

Deliverables:
• Expected deliverables and a rough biweekly time schedule:
	• Project Proposal: Delivered on October 9th 2023
Project Update: Delivered by November 6th 2023
		-> Draft finished by October 31st 2023
Project Demo: Delivered by December 4th 2023
		-> Draft presentation finished by November 28th 2023
Project Report: Delivered by December 11th 2023
		-> Draft report finished by December 5th 2023

• Link to website:(NEW: https://github.com/samforan713/CSC461-Cloud_Gaming) (OLD: https://studentweb.uvic.ca/~sforan/)
• References will include links to the mentioned cloud gaming services homepages, customer reviews,
reports on the quantitative data, etc. Which will be compiled and delivered in the project update
on November 6th 2023. 
